---
title: "GeoPost"
excerpt: "A time-limited, geo-cached post feed, based around the idea of connecting to people around you locally."
github: https://github.com/alisonrwu/nwhacks2017
technologies:
  - Node.js |
  - cockroachDB |
  - AWS
categories: Project
type: App
blog-post: '/2017-10-05/nwhacks2017'
blog: "nwHacks2017"
image_sliders:
  - geopost_slider
tags:
- Node.js
- AWS
- Heroku
- cockroachDB
- Apache Cordova
- HTML
- CSS
- jQuery
---

#### Code:
<a href="https://github.com/terbb/nwhacks2017">View the code here!</a>

#### Summary:

GeoPost is an app based around the idea of locally connecting to people through geocached posts and images. Only people around you can see and comment on the posts that you make, and they only last for a set amount of time!

Ever wanted to ask for help in the Computer Science building? Post an image of your homework on GeoPost, and connect with someone who can help you out. Want to talk about your favorite band at a concert? Rave about it on GeoPost with other like-minded people!

This web-app was built using HTML/CSS/JS to make it look like an Android app, and then was ported over using Apache Cordova. Node.js and Express.js was used for the server, while CockroachDB was used for the database. Heroku was used to deploy the server, which then handled requests from the app.

*Unfortunately, due to the database being shutdown on AWS, the app is no longer available to use.*

{% include slider.html selector="geopost_slider" %}

#### Notable Achievements:
* **Participated in a team of 4 to win Best Node.js app using CockroachDB in 24 hours at nwHacks2017.**
* Ported the server on Heroku to communicate with the phone client.
* Set-up a virtual instance on AWS.
* Designed the tables for the database.
* Installed and managed the cockroachDB database on the virtual instance.
* Wrote and tweaked Node.js endpoints.

#### Version Changes:

**03/19/2017 -** - The app was created at nwHacks2017.

#### Credits:

Created by Trevin Wong, Alison Wu, Brian Wong and Ryan Wirth.
