---
title: "Paper Cut"
excerpt: "You are a corporate paper cutting slave. Cut the exact size dimensions that your boss asks for, or risk being fired! "
github: https://github.com/alisonrwu/bc-game-jam
technologies:
  - Love2d |
  - Lua
categories: Project
type: Game
blog-post: '/2017-10-04/bc-game-jam-2017'
---

The game that started it all. This was the very first game that I had a hand in creating. Born out of a desperation to be creative, this game was built with the theme of "Dimensions" in mind. Who would have thought that people would enjoyed it?

Updates:
10/10/2017: Version 1.1 has been released. Rest assured, Paper Cut is still not dead. I have been refactoring it slowly over the summer, and finally - the code has been reafctored to a state where you can finally make changes without making your eyes bleed. A side effect of the refactoring is that many of the bugs from the most original vresion have been fixed. Unfortunately, there are only minor gameplay changes.

To be more specific, the main game loop now calls the loop of the state that is currently plugged in, instead of containing all the logic for the menu/game/game over screens. Each screen is a "state" - so screens only need to switch the state of the game loop, thus keeping everything much more organized. Here are the complete set of changes:

- You MUST click and hold in order to complete the shape. If you let go - it counts as not creating a shape!
- The feedback from the boss, as well as the correct shape only lasts for 1.5 seconds now, before another problem appears.

Team Members:
Sean Allen, Alison Wu

Difficulties:

With Paper Cut, two main roadblocks were identified early on while we were building it. The first one was shape intersection – how does the game know that a shape has been created? How does one create a shape?

The second one was scoring. How do we score each shape the player makes? For all we know, they could draw a giraffe. How the hell were we supposed to grade the stupid giraffe? I didn't work on this part, so I won't comment on it much - but essentially the game calculated the distance between the four most extreme points of the correct shape and the drawn shape (which later was easily abused by drawing circles instead of rectangles - but it sort of worked during the hackathon.)

During the hackathon, I mainly worked on the first. We broke this problem down into two components. First, the game needed to somehow figure out that two lines were intersecting. We did this by using an intersection algorithm from the internet. Then we simply compared the “current line” that was being created (in other words, the line created from the current X,Y position of the mouse and the last recorded X,Y position), to the all of the lines of the shape (except for the last few – since we found that it was detecting the intersection too accurately). After some tweaking, and making it so new lines were only created when you were moving (so that new lines would not overlap and cause an unnecessary intersection), it was pretty smooth.

The next component that I needed to figure out was how can I complete the shape? Sure, we could detect when an intersection was created, but the circles and rectangles would have a little extra on the end, like a bowtie, unless players PERFECTLY connected the two ends of the shape. I soon discovered that the two lines that were creating the "bowtie" issue were the first and the last lines. So I thought, why not delete these lines, and then re-create new lines which respectively met at the intersection X and Y? It worked perfectly.

From there, the whole process went pretty smoothly. The largest issue we had then was the organization of our code (it was all bundled up in one file) which made it extremely hard to de-bug and make changes. But overall, I'd say that our team did a great job handling these complex problems.
