---
title: "BC Game Jam 2017"
excerpt: "Hey guys, welcome to the BC Game Jam 2017 hackathon spotlight. My names not Phreak, but I'm about to get phreaky with this post."
categories: Blog
project: Paper Cut
project-post: '/2017-10-08/paper-cut'
---

<b>REVIEW:</b>
<div>
Benches: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br>
Demo hype: {% include rating.html score=4 %}<br>
Din.rar: {% include rating.html score=2 %}<br><br>

Most comfortable benches I've ever slept on. Also, crowd was hella hype (let's go cat game). Unfortunately I have to give the dinner a low score. I mean, ONLY 6 pieces of sushi? Come on Jay Friso.<br><br>

Overall: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br><br>
</div>


<b>EXPERIENCE:</b>

This is a re-write of my old post, "Lessons to learn at your first Game Jam", which was originally hosted on WordPress.

Last week, I attended BC Game Jam 2017. It was my first Game Jam ever - so naturally, I was pretty excited to go. Because I love games, almost as much as I do jam. It's a close tie though.

Although, I must admit, I was actually pretty nervous, since I had never really made anything on my own before. The most I had ever done was fill in methods for CPSC 210. So how the hell was I going to make an actual game? But I didn't have time to think about that - the theme was announced. "Dimensions!" The guy said. (or Jay Friso. I'm pretty sure it was Jay Friso.)

After much fruitless discussion, including talking about making a platformer about a grandpa in a wheelchair, my teammate generated the brilliant idea of cutting paper. It was the most creative idea at the time, so off we went, working on a game about cutting paper!

> The grandpa game is real. It's actually currently in development.

Thankfully, he had also already digged up a game engine for us to use: *Love2D*. This also remains as one of my favourite game engines of all time because of its pure simplicity. A game in Love2D consists of two loops: `love.update`, and `love.draw`.

You put the stuff that you calculate in `love.update`, and the stuff that you draw in `love.draw`. Life is great when you're working in Love2D!

To top it off, Love2D comes bundled with a bunch of functions that you can use right off the bat, for example:

`love.graphics.rectangle("fill", 20, 50, 60, 120)`

Which draws you a nice little rectangle. Isn't that cute?

Anyways, as anyone would, when working on a game about cutting paper, we worked feverishly into the night (and took a few naps on BCIT's extremely comfortable benches). At the end of all the pain, we were able to basically finish the entire game, which still amazes me. The scoring system, as well as the mechanic for intersecting and creating the shapes, were not easy problems to solve. On top of that, my teammate (who was also programming) also composed the music for the game, and drew the art as well. I'd say we did pretty well.

> Looking back on this game jam now, it really makes me appreciate the strength of having 3 programmers in your team. Designers are great, but when you have someone to constantly talk to and debug with, development time becomes incredibly fast.

Finally, it was time to present. What many people don't realize is that presenting is a skill in itself. Introducing our game as a corporate slave simulator got a few laughs out of the audience. And whose not to say that even the judges don't enjoy a good laugh? Not that there were any judges. Well, at the very least, my teammate, who played the game while I presented, didn't die, which is more than I can say for some groups, unfortunately. It's always a sad day when you've got something awesome to present but your own game ends up biting your ass.

Finally, as a game about cutting paper should, we won <b>Volunteer's Choice - First Place</b>! That made me pretty happy. We got some sweet loot, including a Discord sticker I now proudly display on my laptop.

Special thanks to Sean Allen and Alison Wu. I'm glad I had you guys by my side.

<b>LESSONS LEARNED:</b>
1. Pick a simple, and feasible game idea. Then polish it.
2. Pick a creative idea.
3. Limit your team size (3-4).
4. Practice your presentation and modify your game for the presentation (debug commands).
5. Always present your game!

P.S: No, a game about cutting paper should not win First Place. But thanks for choosing us anyways.
