---
title: "Eduhacks"
excerpt: "Wow, another hackathon spotlight! Jesus Phreak!"
categories: Blog
project: Teacher for a Day
project-post: '/2017-10-09/teacher-for-a-day'
---

##### REVIEW:
<div>
In the end remix: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br>
Warmness of venue: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br>
$40 dollar clickdishes credit: {% include rating.html score=5 %}
<br><br>

Let's be real here. I was treated like a KING at Eduhacks. The venue was so toasty, and legit the best "In the End" remix I ever heard. Also, you can't complain about getting a free $40 to nearby restaurants?<br><br>

Overall: {% include rating.html score=5 %}
</div>

##### EXPERIENCE:

Like all other hackathons, I departed for Eduhacks in the brisk 'morn. For breakfast, I stuffed my face with TacoTime nachos beacuse I was feeling especially frisky this particular morning. I definitely would not recommend this particular route of action. The cheese made me feel a little sick.

Anyways, nachos in belly, I rolled up to the venue, the Vancouver Convention Centre. I met my group inside of the hall that we were to be in for the next 24 hours. Thankfully, our team (courtesy of a teacher inside the group) had already snugly secured a couple of ideas before we came to the hack. Fumu, very wise indeed. I approved.

Among the list of ideas, was a game about simulating a day in the life of a teacher. Now, I was particularly drawn to this one, as I'm sure you can tell why. I had just been flexing my Lua skills developing the latest edition of Paper Cut. I leaned back, stretched my back and cracked my fingers - the Lua god himself was ready to get to work. I fanatically began to preach about how great Lua was to my group, but unfortunately I don't think my group cared much for it. Well, I'll ~convert~ tell 'em next time.

The next order of business was finding 2 other programmers, because ~the more people know about Lua, the better~ we figured bolstering our forces to steel oursevles would be a wise decision. So we posted on Slack and scrounged around till we we found 2 ~unwilling, helpess victims to the Lua god~ other programmers.

"Hi," they said.

"What languages do you know?" I replied.

"Java," said one. "Python," replied the other.

"Perfect," I said. "We're using Lua."

Despite my blatant ignorance of their skill-set, they were still willing to sit down and learn Lua. Fumu, very admirable indeed. I expected them to be a little more enthusiastic, but this wasn't a bad start. Wait, doesn't this look like I'm starting to become a salesman for Love2D?

At any rate, it was time to get down to business. We envisioned a Pokemon style-like game, which mean it needed tilesets, and a character that could move around. 4 hours of straight-faced finger smashing, I finally managed to get both up and running, a great success, if it weren't for the fact that every 120 frames, the game would lag for a solid second. I can feel myself starting to sweat a little bit. 

4 hours of solid work, and we don't even have anything to show for it other than a laggy walking simulator. I glance to my side and see how the other 2 programmers are faring. Unfortunately, not much better. It turns out they were my juniors in Comp Sci - meaning that they had never faced a syntax as odd as Lua's, let alone even attempted to make a game.

I had made a mistake. I grossly overestimated my competence in Lua. Furthermore, I had given far too high of a hurdle for the other 2 programmers to overcome. If they even managed to learn a tiny bit of Lua at the end of this hack, I would have congratulated them. I mean, what was I doing before CPSC 210? I didn't even know that you could program with multiple files, which, by the way, is very intimidating to someone whose used to filling out methods in pre-built classes in Java.

At this moment, a flash of inspiration came to me. There did exist an engine out there somewhere. One by the name of "RPG Maker", which was literally built for making RPGs. And since we were making a style in the game of Pokemon, what better engine for the job than an engine whose sole existence was to copy Pokemon?

However, I felt pretty guilty for leading my team down the rabbit hole of using Lua, and having nothing to show for it. My team had already put in so much work. Who was I to suddenly take all their work and throw it in the trash?

I called my friend. "Should we switch to RPG Maker MV?"

"Isn't it obvious?" replied my friend.

Damn. I guess it was obvious. I shuffled over to my table, deflated by my own incompetence. Looks I'm still a thousand years too early to challenge Lua... I suppose I'll have to shoryouken a few waterfalls first...

## The Switch

I get back to work on RPG Maker MV and set up the whole project. Problem: a team member has Mac and can't download it.

Shit. I'm thinking oh man, I just got my whole team to switch gears, and now my teammate can't even work on it. What the hell am I doing? The clock strikes 7:50pm or so. I'm feeling way too guilty about shafting my team to do anything. But time is running out, and I knew I had to do something. So I start playing around on RPG Maker. I make the map. I make an NPC. I start putting in dialogue that the teacher wrote earlier. I need to do something. ANYTHING. Whether it's copy or pasting dialogue or re-naming something, I had to do SOMETHING.

My fingers start moving. Bit by bit, my brain cranks into gear. I'm starting up again - I'm coming back to life. I zone in. I leave my two juniors in Computer Science in the DUST. I don't even leave them a github to contribute to (to be fair, RPG Maker is a pain to use github with). My communication rubber-bands back to the Stone Age, as I reply with little more than a grunt to every question my group asks me.

10:00am. I'm working on the first NPC. Her dialogue works.

12:00am. We put in the tileset. It works. There's a hip hop class. I entertain myself with his dancing for a short time.

2:00am. The teacher finishes some drawings. I put them in along with a plugin. The drawings show upon speaking to her.

4:00am. I program a plugin to display the "success" variable as a bar on the top left. What the hell is wrong with RPG Maker MV documentation?
I put Smashville in as the title music.

6:00am. I script in the consequences for each dialogue - including the student leaving. I take a solid 2 hour nap.

8:30am. It's CRUNCH TIME. I go ham on the code. Students start randomly spawning. You can drink coffee. You can talk to the computer for some reason.

1:29pm. Holy crap. There's still bugs. My brain accelerates faster and faster, trying to stretch every precious second for even a milligram of useful thought as I try to
jam as many features as I can into the game.

##### The submission

Finally, we submitted it. Sweet jesus, the game is actually somewhat complete. At first, I thought the game would turn out nothing more than a walking simulator - but as
I booted up and heard that beautiful Smashville theme song running, along with that crooked looking smile the teacher gave me, I felt at ease. I did my best. Well, I could have done bester, but whatever.

The judges come on by, and as usual, we give them the run-down on the game. The teacher actually wrote a whole script for it, which was actually really impressive (I think our presentation definitely would have crashed and burned without her). After what feels like forever, we suddenly get a Slack message - "you've made it to the final presentation."

I'm surprised, but I'm also so tired that I can hardly act like it, but damn. We go on stage. This is the first time I've actually encountered a legitimate presentation about a hack while being judged. The teacher carries. I say a few words, the judges give us some positive reviews, and I head back down with my team.

To be honest, I never expected to win. At most, bronze prize. So when I heard the team announced for bronze prize, my heart sank a little. But sometimes you don't get bronze prize because in reality you get SILVER PRIZE. Gosh darn. Or maybe you just don't get it just cause you don't get it..

At any rate, we WON SILVER yahoo. Felt pretty good to stick it through the end and be rewarded for it. I know what we did was technologically much less demanding than other groups. Still, I'm thankful for the prize, and my team. Maybe I'll pawn the 2nd place medal for a dollar or something.

{% include image.html name="photo4.jpg" %}

Special thanks to my teammates, Jane Jun, Yili Lou, Nicholas Chin and Charlene Nicer for never giving up, even when I baited you guys.

##### LESSONS LEARNED:
1. If you don't know what to do. DO SOMETHING. DO ANYTHING!!
2. Fail fast. Don't spend time getting stuck.
3. Spend time thinking of a great idea and learn the technologies required before the hackathon.
