---
title: "nwHacks2017"
excerpt: "Hey guys, welcome to another hackathon spotlight with your boy, Phreaky."
categories: Blog
project: GeoPost
project-post: '/2017-10-08/geopost'
---

<b>REVIEW:</b>
<div>
Amount of loot: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br>
Softness of benches: {% include rating.html score=1 %}<br>
Cute cockroach stickers: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br><br>

I looted so much stuff here. I must have gotten like fifty billion shirts and stickers. Also, cutest cockroaches ever. Unfortunately, I have to give a low score for the benches (maybe if they weren't made of wood they would be more comfortable).<br><br>

Overall: {% include rating.html score=5 %}<br><br>
</div>


<b>EXPERIENCE:</b>

This is a re-write of my old post, "nwHacks2017 baby", which was originally hosted on WordPress.
You can also view cockroachDB's blog post here:

One ESPECIALLY brisk day in March, I headed over to UBC for the one and only nwHacks2017, hosted by North Western people, for North Western people. Hell yeah. The North West hype is real. Let's give it up for everyone located relatively North and West!

Alright, so right off the bat, me and my good buddy are late to the opening ceremony. We register. We immediately sweep the sponsors table for any goodies. Then we bustle over. We slam our selves down in our seats, and wow, was the hype real. Kevin Dhir did a great job energizing the crowd (as expected of a Smash director), and the opening speakers were seriously inspiring.

> "People always make 2 big mistakes a year whether or not they take some risks, so take some risks".
> - Some guy at the opening ceremony

As it so happens, SOME GUY really fired me up into gunning after one of the prizes. Specifically, the coveted (or not so coveted?) prize of winning the <b>Best Node.js App using CockroachDB</b>. So I pitched it to my team.

> Me: Hey guys, how about we use cockroachDB?
> My team: Uhhhhhhhhhhh

Anyways, they didn't have a choice. Off I went, installing cockroachDB when BAM, clusters and nodes and all this random ass terminology starts flying at me. In the first place, I didn't even know what a server was. I thought it was like a hard-drive or something? Turns out it's actually just a computer (the more you know!).

For some dumbass reason I spent 5-6 hours installing cockroachDB on a virtual instance on Amazon Web Services. For anyone that doesn't know, it's actually not that hard. It's just installing something. Actually, for those of you who don't know, it's not even necessary to set it up on a virtual instance. You can just host it off your computer. <i>as long as you open up the right ports.</i>

God knows what I did for the rest of the night, because I remember feeling incredibly depressed that I wasn't doing anything other than typing in `cockroach start`. That starts up the database, by the way. Thankfully, I actually also ended up editing the back-end code somehow and deployed it onto Heroku, which ended up being useful. You can take a look at my commits if you want the proof.

I also remember freezing and hallucinating at 7:00am. I swear I was seeing two of my good buddy at some point.

Finally, it was morning. And it was time to present. As usual, it's not too hard - you just give the guys your little spiel. Funnily enough, the cockroachDB guys actually really liked our app! They took a look at our database and they went <i>"mhmm, that's a real geniune database with tables"</i>, which.. I guess impressed them a lot! I imagine that it helped that we had an extremely talented web developer on our side (I'm looking at you, Ryan Wirth).

To make the story short and lame, we trundled over and won <b>Best Node.js App using CockroachDB</b>. Well, whaddya know. Taking risks does pay off, I guess.

Special thanks to Ryan Wirth, Alison Wu and Brian Wong. Thank god you guys knew what a server was.

<b>LESSONS LEARNED:</b>
1. Terminate your instances on AWS, or get charged $1200.
2. Learn the technology required for your idea the day before, or at least on the day of.
3. Don't do unnecessary shit like hosting your database on a virtual instance!
